Machine Intelligence 1 - Exercise 2
Robin Vobruba


2.1
a)
	supervised:
		with a teacher, training data is given, predict output on yet unknonw input;
		to be used on classification & regression problems
	unsupervised:
		self-organizing nature, clustering/categorization
		two main use-cases:
		- categorization
		- feature detection
	reinforcement learning:
		each action taken is rated, not based on mathematical models
b)
• To teach a dog to catch a ball
	(reinforcement learning)
	observation: fliegender ball
	label: - (was the dog able to catch the ball, or not)
	reward: food or caressing the dog receives whenever he was able to catch the ball
• To read hand written addresses from letters
	(supervised)
	observation: one (unknown) hand written letter
	label: a letter from the alphabet (assigned to a hand written one)
	reward: -
• To identify groups of users with the same taste of music
	(unsupervised)
	observation: music the people listen to
	label: - (category of music)
	reward: -

2.2
a) For what reason do connectionist neurons have a transfer function?
	The transfer function is one of the components that make up
	the computational nature of such a neuron(its synapse).
	It allows to map input to output in a non-linear manner.
b) In which situation would a tanh() transfer function be more appropriate than a sign()?
	When we need non-linearity, as in a Multi Layer Perceptron.
	With the sign() function, we would give away the computational capacity
	of the multi layer/multi neuron aspect of the perceptron, compared
	to a single neuron.
	To determine the type of hte output (continuous or "digital")

2.3 What is the function of the bias in a connectionist neuron? Give an example in which a classification
with a sign() transfer function would not work without a bias (but would with one).
	(The bias is the threshold added to the sum of inputs, before the transfer function.)
	It alows to handle the threashold in an algorithmicaly simpler way.
	It provides a point of reference.
	Example: find out if a vehicule is a car, with the input being number of wheels.
		The threashold has to be -3.5.

2.4 What are point and edge filters and what are they used for?
	They may be used to detect single points/pixels or edges in
	(a certain part) of an image (pixel canvas). It does so by analyzing
	the brightness (or changes therein).
	Given a specific location in an image, they analyze a fixed ammount of
	pixels, and return the likelyhood of this location containing a point
	or edge respectively.

2.5 What is the difference between a connectionist neuron with a logistic transfer function and a
stochastic neuron?
	???stochastic neurons (two states)
	
2.6
a)
Give the easiest example you can think of, in which a multilayer perceptron (MLP) can distinguish
between two classes, but a single connectionist neuron can not.
	XOR
	in1	in2	sum	out
	0	0	0	0
	0	1	1	1
	1	0	1	1
	1	1	2	0
	There is no set of weights and (standard) transfer function that could
	map
b)
What are feedforward and recurrent MLP and why is training a recurrent MLP much more
complicated than a feedforward MLP?
	For a feedforward MLP, it is true for every synapse going from layer
	i to layer j, that i < j. For a recurrent MLP, this is not true.
	Training a FF MLP is therefore much easier, because we can just
	propagate the error back through the net, layer by layer, adjusting
	the weights.
